The pricing strategies in AIRBNB are very complex and should take into account various factors, not limited by but including location, amenities, competitor pricing, customer reviews, etc. Focusing on short-term rentals, AIRBNB listings are subject to seasonal price fluctuations due to local events, and holidays, which makes the market highly dynamic. Traditional pricing strategies may struggle to adjust these fluctuations effectively. However, data analytics offers a solution by uncovering patterns and insights that can optimize pricing dynamically.
The objective of this research was to analyze whether certain factors influence the price of AIRBNB listings in the region of Asheville, North Carolina, with a specific focus on the impact of location, type of listings, reviews, and specific booking days to listing prices. The hypothesis postulated that some factors like review scores, location of listings, specific booking days, and certain room types statistically significantly affect pricing. 

A SUMMARY OF THE DATA-ANALYSIS PROCESS 

The data-analysis process included following steps:
1.	Data Collection: gathering AIRBNB datasets (review.cvs.gz, listings.csv.gz, calendar.csv.gz) for Asheville, North Carolina, in open source (www.insideairbnb.com), that covers review scores, location, booking dates, and room types.
2.	Data Preprocessing: 
- cleaning the dataset, including changing register, unifying the unique names, removing symbols or extracting numbers from strings, 
- integer encoding (0 or 1) for Boolean types with outputs – “yes” or “no” and one-hot-encoding for categorical variables;
- handling missing values, with imputation techniques such as median imputation, or filling NA values by 0 values (for missing not at random);
 - dealing with outliers, building boxplots, making visualizations and analyzing statistical information,
- standardization features
- a transformation of the skewed data distribution to make it closer to normal distribution;
- merging datasets to include information about dynamically changing prices over the year;
3. Building a correlation matrix, giving a first glance at the relationship between the target feature (price) and other factors.	
4. Hypothesis Testing: performing statistical tests, including ANOVA (for test hypothesis on location, booking day, room type) and linear regression (hypothesis on review scores), to evaluate the significance of various factors on listing prices.
5.	Machine Learning Modeling: building predictive models, including linear regression, random forest, and decision trees. ARIMA model was used to evaluate time series.
6. Building a model, based on a neural network, that fused the best ARIMA model on a dataset with key variables to use.
7. Evaluation: Assessing model performance and analyzing residuals to identify model limitations.

AN OUTLINE OF THE FINDINGS

During the analysis, there have been made next findings:
1)	Booking days have a statistically significant effect on the price with the large F-statistic=122.47 and p-value = 1.6*10^-83 which is much lower than the statistical significance 0.05 level. Bookings on Tuesdays and Wednesdays generally offer lower prices.
2)	Room type also plays a significant role in the price (10^(-39)), with Entire home/apt and Hotel room listings commanding higher prices compared to Private rooms. However, shared room listings have been out of analysis while testing hypotheses due to insufficient data on them and not representative data for doing tests.
3)	Location significantly affects listing prices, with variations observed among different neighborhoods in Asheville. Initially dataset contains data on 10 neighbourhoods but 3 of them provide only one listing and have been deleted from consideration. 
4)	Review scores, particularly location, cleanliness, accuracy, check-in experience, and value, were found to impact listing prices, listed in order of importance, while communication scores did not show significant meaning with p-value>0.05. It is worth noting, that the correlation matrix clearly showed a rather weak (<0.1) correlation between price and all of the review components but a strong correlation with a number of reviews
5)	97.7% of all reviews are mainly positive. Performed a sentiment analysis revealed that the most frequent words found in positive comments are: stay, great, place, Asheville, location, clean, downtown, etc.
6)	The summary statistics for the variable relationships with the price are displayed below (based on OLS model):

 
7)	To predict prices additionally to linear regression there have been built 2 other models – Random Forest and Decision tree, but their metrics were worse than for the linear regression model. However, linear regression also is far from ideal modeling even with additional steps to make this model better. 
8)	  To predict a dynamically changing future prices, ARIMA has been used and provided a good results with MSE=5.29 and RMSE=2.23. However, best results are performed on the first 30 days. 
9)	An attempt was made to compile the best ARIMA model and using dataset with all features to use in neural network but again, the output of the chosen architecture produced unexpectedly poor result: MAE=89.4, MSE=21218.

AN EXPLANATION OF THE LIMITATIONS OF THE TECHNIQUES AND TOOLS USED

1.	One of the assumptions of linear regression and ANOVA is linear relationships between variables, which we can see from visualizations may not always hold.
2.	Time-series modeling may not capture all underlying patterns and dependencies in the data, particularly if complex seasonal variations exist.
3.	The dataset may not include all relevant features that could influence listing prices, leading to potential omitted variable bias.
This study is limited by the number of records and concentrated only on one area in North Carolina. It makes the output of the research not versatile for all regions. Additionally, the preprocessing steps required considerable effort and time, especially in cleaning the datasets. One of the visions how to simplify this process is using prefilters to standardize and unify some entries, implementing a preset list of neighbourhood names, and ensuring that the column “bathrooms” contains only numbers, etc.). These steps improve streamlining the preprocessing pipeline for future analyses.
It is important to note the technical constraints that impact the preprocessing steps and modeling phases of this study. Sentiment analysis with TextBlob library, as well as text cleaning, lemmatization for analyzing comments in the review dataset, and execution of the fusing model, which combine multiple sources of data and/or models are time-consuming, particularly for large datasets. These time expenses are caused by machine capacities, where the code is executed, including factors such as processing power, memory and parallelization.  One of the method of optimization is batching, which has been just used in the study for sentiment analysis.

A SUMMARY OF PROPOSED ACTIONS 

The final result of the study is developing the optimized model to predict dynamically changing AIRBNB listing prices. This model incorporates a diversity of factors influencing the price like reviews, review scores, location, type of accommodation, number of beds, bathrooms, etc. However, it's important to note that while the model represents a great step forward by combining time-series analysis with various factors, there has been left a large room for improvement. One of the proposed actions is to train the model on a larger dataset, spanning multiple years. Currently, the model was trained on the dataset covering only a single year which limits its ability to capture long-term trends and seasonal variation more precisely. The predictive accuracy could be enhanced by joining data covering more years and including information from other areas within one South-Eastern region. Meanwhile, extending the dataset may require the inclusion of supplementary information and a dataset, which provides info on taxes, and fees specific to the area. The dataset integrated with these additional factors better considers an economic context on pricing. Another factor, that could influence the price, but which did not include in the model is the experience of the host. Based on the findings in [Appendix 1, 3], dynamic pricing strategies could be explained by the experience the host has accumulated over time. Factors such as a number of months since the hosts joined AIRBNB and the amount of listings they have could add value to make the model more optimized.
Further, the model could be enhanced by including property characteristics and specific amenities, which potentially could influence the price, such as pools, hot tubs, pool tables, coffee machines, etc. By taking a more expanded range of features, the model can output more accurate predictions of listing prices.
The final step in improving the model involves improving the architecture of the neural network, by incorporating LSTM (Long-short-term memory) layer and the GRU (gated recurrent unit) layer with using recurrent dropout arguments of the recurrent layers. This recommendation is done based on [Appendix 1, 2]. These changes should help the model better captures time-changing prices to potentially achieve higher accuracy and robustness in its predictions. 
EXPECTED BENEFITS OF THE STUDY

1.	The primary benefits of this study are aimed at hosts and property managers, who placed the listings on AIRBNB. The obvious advantage is an improved understanding of what factors are major components in the price-making process, especially, for hosts in Asheville, North Carolina, USA. For instance, insights into which components of review scores (there are 6 of them) play significant roles in elevating the customer satisfaction index. Prioritizing improvements in cleanliness, accuracy, and check-in experience, based on these findings, can attract more customers. The importance of these components is underscored by sentiment analysis of the comments from the review dataset, which confirmed that specific location and level of cleanliness are the most frequent determinants of positive or negative reviews. This analysis has practical implications for Airbnb owners in Asheville as it offers valuable insights into the key attributes that increase tourist's emotional and cognitive well-being [Appendix 1, 4].
2.	Enhanced predictive model should better estimate dynamic listing prices on AIRBNB, which facilitates more informed pricing strategies for property managers and hosts. By employing dynamic pricing, this strategy enables hosts to capitalize on peak demand periods by raising prices, and opposite, decreasing booking prices on low-demand periods to stimulate bookings. 
3.	The findings and removals of outliers from the study could contribute valuable information for future investors. There have been deleted 3 neighborhoods with little listings but with higher average prices – Leicester, Buncombe County, Fairview. This prompts us to clarify the reason for the scarcity in these neighbourhoods and question whether potential hosts have properties in these areas. During analysis, there have been deleted 2 listings with exceptionally high prices (6000$ and 11000$ per night).  It makes to consider of alternative uses for these properties as partnering with wedding or events planning companies. Meanwhile, it is worth noting that the spreading of short-term rental (further - STR) business is under pressure from a group of concerned citizens and faces many local issues and regulations to prevent STR development [Appendix 1, 1].
4.	Overall, as the prevalence of artificial intelligence applications continues to rise there is a potential of appearing new ideas and added value in this study and its practice applications. Future research and enhancing the pricing model may sooner enrich this knowledge since newly developing algorithms and methodologies offer opportunities for improvements. Expanding data sets by exploring other markets will reinforce the use of ML methods in the area of short-term rental and potentially across broader real estate in the future.



